---
layout: link
title: Pro*anity
date: '2014-03-27 14:52:36'
link: http://mattgemmell.com/profanity
---

<p>Matt Gemmell:</p>

 <blockquote> <p>Swearing isn’t bad language. Swearing is essential language.</p></blockquote>

<p>I have a job where language is a tool of immense importance. No, not writing.<a href="#fn:1" id="fnref:1" title="see footnote" class="footnote">[1]</a></p>

<p>I referee hockey games. Not at as high a level as many of my friends, but at a high enough level that I work with full grown men. </p>

<p>And language — more aptly &#8220;profanity&#8221; — is used to all levels of the extreme. </p>

<p>I get asked a lot about the language I hear on the ice. I also get asked about <em>my</em> language on the ice. The same answer is given for both questions. </p>

<p>&#8220;The language is not for the faint of heart.&#8221;</p>

<p>Officials are supposed to be above &#8220;swearing&#8221; on the ice. But that&#8217;s an age old adage for respect. </p>

<p>I think there&#8217;s a difference between respectful behaviour and language. Good language does not equal respect. Nor does bad language equate to disrespect. They are not directly correlated. Language is a tool to be used to communicate a message. The severity of the message being delivered is defined solely by the words used to communicate the message. </p>

<p>Profanity is used by players, coaches and officials alike because there is a mutual knowledge of the guidelines. The F-word does not mean the F-word as English defines it. It means &#8220;very&#8221;, or &#8220;much&#8221;, or &#8220;leave&#8221; or whatever you want it to mean. </p>

<p>That&#8217;s the beauty of language. It evolves. It moves forward. Bad language is bad language because we decided it should be bad language. </p>

<p>We can also choose for bad language to not have a negative impact on our feelings and emotions. </p>

<p>Matt Gemmell is a talented writer who I often disagree with. </p>

<p>Today I agree with him. </p>

<p>Head on over to understand the artistic aspect of delivering an impressive profane word. Matt is one of the best for a reason. </p>

<p>Pinboarding this one for future conflict management. </p>

<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>

<li id="fn:1">
<p>Although I do wish this was my job.  <a href="#fnref:1" title="return to article" class="reversefootnote">&#160;&#8617;</a></p>
</li>

</ol>
</div